Welcome back.
Let's talk about formatting that is code formatting.
A very important tool that comes with a lot of I.D. and you can also add extensions to code errors like
Visual Studio code to format code.
Now in order for us to talk about that we have to talk about Python pep and if you google Python pep
you'll get something like this pep stands for Python enhancement proposals.
These are proposals that the community the python developer community gives in order for us to have
a standardized way to write code.
And one of the more popular ones if you scroll down is what we called the PEP 8.
You can see that there's a lot of pap numbers.
Well pep 8 is the most popular one and it's a style guide for python code.
It tells us this is what good clean Python coach you look like but luckily for you you don't have to
click through here and read every single thing.
I mean it is a lot code editors and ideas help us with this.
Let's have a look.
I have a piece of code here in my Hello Dot pie file.
I mean it doesn't look that bad but how do we know for formatting the code according to pep 8.
Well very easily we can run our command pallet or we can use a shortcut here.
Command shift P or control shift p.
If you're on Windows and then if we type in format document and click here we'll get hay for matter
auto Pip rate is not install.
Do you want to install it and auto Pip 8 is a popular package with the s code or extension that gives
us the pep 8 format.
So let's install this now.
Let's once again run the format.
Document and did you see that our code changed quite a bit.
We have some spaces some formatting that went on and it did that automatically because of pep 8.
As soon as I change something let's add some spaces here like that make our code just formatted really
strange
I click save and let's once again commence shift B format document.
Now let's save this and here pep 8 formatting style was added for example with pep 8.
It recommends that when you write functions that you have two spaces following it.
So two spaces after every function once again.
If I remove this and do format document you see that a space is added because of our auto pep 8 package.
Very very cool.
And you can also set this up so it does this automatically on safe.
I'll leave that one to you to customize your editor and the way that you want.
Now if we go to pie chart pie chart.
Again we have the same code over here.
Just larger text already has this installed for us as a matter of fact.
You can see the underline here and says pep hate hate.
I expected two blank lines after class or function definition.
So it actually tells you that.
All right.
This is not good according to paid or maybe we can add extra spaces here and right away.
Look at that pay pay.
Multiple spaces after keyword we don't want that.
Now all we have to do here is simply go to
and reformat code and you can also see the shortcut available.
If I do this.
Look at that the code was reformatted.
Let's make this a little smaller and everything seems to be working.
And I also get a little error.
This is not pep 8.
Again it's another suggestion by the editor.
Tell me that you've created a new function.
Some but some actually exists in Python so you're almost overwriting this again a really really neat
feature of pie chart and you know what.
Just because we have a little bit of time just to show you how you can use a yes code to just save or
format on save I can simply go to preferences settings and type in format and if I scroll to format
on safe I can click on that you can see that changes have been automatically implemented.
So now every time I do command s and save look at that.
If formatted for me so that we can make sure that we write clean Python code according to the standards.
Let's take a break and I'll see you in the next one.
Bobby.